# Topic Modeling

[Jupyter Notebook PDF](https://abgaddi.github.io/course_projects/TM/notebook)

# Written Analysis

Every year, the General Debate marks the beginning of the United Nations General Assembly.  Unlike voting and decision making within the UN, the General Debate statements allow leaders of member states to address what they are actually concerned about or what they prioritize for their nation (Baturo, Dasandi, Mikhaylov 2017).  This analysis will look at the priorities and concerns of the member states and see if there are significant differences between low income, middle, and high-income countries.

The idea of this project is guided by two articles written by Some Aditya Mandal and Paul Ng, respectively. In Mandal’s analysis, they looked at ten member states and the speeches of the leaders from the 74th session in 2019 (Mandal 2019).  Their analysis included using word clouds, topic modeling, and sentiment analysis for each leader’s address.  Mandal was able to see the main points of each speech and specifically looked to see which countries talked about climate change (Mandal 2019). Ng on the other hand, looked at how what topics were addressed from 1970 to 2015 between the U.S. and Malaysia, along with a small sentiment analysis over time for the U.S. (Ng 2019).  In addition, a paper written in 2017 highlights the benefits of using natural language processing for improving evidence and support surrounding research and decision-making for international development (Broniecki, Hanchar, Mikhaylov).  Even the World Bank has a report called ‘Big Data in Action for Development’ and mentions several natural language processing as tools for analysis (World Bank 2014). 


Looking more closely at development and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the member states are supposed to implement a plan for sustainable development (UN 2015). However, large differences in characteristics such as in public health and the environment between low-income/developing countries versus higher income/developed countries affects the needs separately.  Although countries globally suffer from the spread of diseases, low-income countries tend to experience more problems with communicable diseases like tuberculosis, malaria, etc. while high-income countries face problems with non-communicable diseases like cancer and cardiovascular disease (Stevens 2004). Low-income countries tend to be more affected by infectious diseases because of underlying issues like lack of clean water or lack of education for prevention (Stevens 2004). 


The effects of climate change disasters are also disproportionately affecting the poorer countries despite contributing the least toxic emissions and their economies are especially suffering from climate-related disaster recovery (UNCCC 2018).  And despite being disproportionately affected, climate change can still affect high income countries especially in terms of geography.  The effects of climate change are causing a decline of freshwater availability in areas near large river basins in Asia, decline of agriculture production in Australia and New Zealand, increase of winter flooding and increase of heat waves in Northern America, and increase of extreme weather events amongst small islands (“Climate Change Around The World”).  Based on these literatures, one of the expectations from this analysis is a general difference in the relevance of development, where low-income countries may mention development more since they are affected most. Another expectation is the high relevance of climate change terms since both high and low-income are affected by climate change.
The corpus used in the analysis was created by Baturo, Dasandi, and Mikhaylov first in 2017 and has been updated since then. It includes the addresses of all the leaders from the member states of the United Nations that participated in the annual General Debate. The earliest session is from 1970 and the latest from 2018.  The United Nations website provides PDF and word documents of most sessions; however, a lot of the earlier documents are just images of text and were not included in this data set.  In total, there are 8,093 statements, translated to English if appropriate, from the member states.  The plain text speeches were then transformed into a CSV with country code, session, year and the statements.  

On average, there were about 165 speeches each session which increased throughout the years alongside the increase in member states.  The average length of all speeches were originally 2,805 words. To help with computing in the analysis, the statements were summarized by taking out special characters, creating a frequency table of words, and assigning scores based on these frequencies. The final summary was created by picking the highest scoring sentences.  After summarizing, the average length of all the speeches was 1,680 words which is still more than half the amount of words.


Additionally, a column for Economy and Income group were created.  These columns come from the World Bank website which categorized countries in four groups based on their GNI. GNI is the dollar value of a country's final income in a year, divided by its population. The four groups are low, lower middle, upper middle, and high income. Economy is essentially the country’s name and this database was joined using matching country codes. There were a couple country codes that did not have an income group because of changes in sovereignty such as Yugoslavia and Czechoslovakia.  According to the UN speeches data, the Yugoslavia address in 2003 is actually Serbia.  Since Czech and Slovakia are both high incomes according to the World Bank dataset, they were classified as high income. Using income groups, four subset datasets were created, and those with no income group (like EU, Vatican, Yugoslavia, etc.) were not included in the subsets.


For analyzing the corpus, a topic modeling approach was used on the statements.  With topic modeling, the machine will automatically analyze the corpus given and detect similar words to be clustered in n number of groups.  Latent Dirichlet Allocation, or LDA, is a statistical topic model that clusters words using context clues (Jockers & Mimno 2013).  Using a jupyter notebook and code taken from class, a general topic model was created from the full corpus with all statements. This was used as a baseline comparison and to look at overall concerns and topics from all the General Debate speeches. A filter string is included in the script to extract any text that includes the filter string.  However, for the full corpus, the key word was ‘the’ in order to capture all 8,093 statements.  Afterwards, four topic models were created for each income group subset. Unlike the complete corpus, the key word was ‘development’ to capture the speeches that mentioned the word development. A word cloud for each topic was also generated to visually see the key terms and their frequencies.


Out of the five topics that came from the first model, one includes terms relating to sustainable development like ‘climate’, ‘sustainable’, ‘women’, ‘poverty’, ‘development’.  Also included in the top terms is the year 2030 which is the end goal for the SDGs established by the UN (UN 2015).  It’s interesting that this year would appear since the corpus includes speeches from the end of the 20th century and the SDGs were only created in 2015, but a high frequency within the topic indicates its relevance (UN 2015).  The first topic has a lot of terms concerning war like ‘arms’, ‘nuclear’, ‘military’.  This may be because the Cold War was still happening within a significant part of the corpus date range.


Looking at the topic models for each economic group, conflict terms still were very relevant especially the term ‘nuclear’ which appeared in all four models with high frequency. The term ‘climate’ also appeared with high frequencies, which was quite surprising since when used as a filter string, there was not a significant amount of speeches to build a topic model from. But this does support the earlier prediction in which the concern of climate change would be apparent in all economic groups. In contrast, looking closely at the topics with terms related to development, there are more differences that can be observed.  Firstly, in the low and lower-middle income groups, the relative size of the topic was much larger than in the high and upper-middle income groups. In the higher income groups, the topic with development term appeared to be the smallest cluster out of all topics while in the lower-middle income group it was the second largest and in the low-income group it was the largest topic.  


Another interesting distinction are the terms themselves within the development topic.  In the lower income groups the word ‘poverty’ appears with significant frequencies.  Since these are the lower income groups it’s understandable on why that term appears, but ‘poverty’ is grouped together with the other development terms rather than appearing in all topics.  Other terms that stand out are ‘reform’, ‘cooperation’, and ‘help’.  In comparison, the higher income groups had terms like ‘leadership’, ‘promote’, ‘responsibility’.  The term ‘women’ was particularly interesting because it only showed up in the high-income group model with also a very high frequency within this topic.


Reflecting on the results of the topic models, there were notable differences found between the low/lower-middle income and upper-middle/high income countries.  This confirms the basis for most of the SDGs and the new approach of development being more than just alleviating poverty. There is not much else to take away from this analysis without further investigation.  If I were to improve on this analysis, I would want to capture more of the speeches instead of just a summary for a more cohesive corpus for topic modelling.  It would also be interesting to look at whether or not the countries that are most concerned about sustainable development and asking for help/cooperation are getting international aid from higher income countries.  Additionally, it would be interesting to see how the UN addresses these needs since they would be different in each country and can’t all use the same solution.

**References**

Alexander Baturo, Niheer Dasandi, and Slava Jankin Mikhaylov, "Understanding State Preferences With Text As Data: Introducing the UN General Debate Corpus" Research and Politics, 2017, Volume 4, Issue 2.

“Big Data in Action For Development” World Bank, 14 Oct. 2014, https://understandrisk.org/wp-content/uploads/Big-Data-for-Development-Report_final-version.pdf.

“Climate Change Around The World: A View From The UN Regional Commissions” United Nations, https://www.un.org/en/chronicle/article/climate-change-around-world-view-un-regional-commissions

Jockers & Mimno (2013). “Significant themes in 19th -century literature” Poetics 41(6): 750-769.

“Low-Income Countries Hit Hardest by Soaring Costs of Climate-Related Disasters.” UNFCCC, 11 Oct. 2018, unfccc.int/news/low-income-countries-hit-hardest-by-soaring-costs-of-climate-related-disasters.

Mandal, Some Aditya. “Visualizing the Speeches of World Leaders at UNGA.” Towards Data Science, 29 Sept. 2019, towardsdatascience.com/visualizing-the-speeches-of-world-leaders-at-unga-d7319e00e180. 

Ng, Paul. “What Do Nation Leaders Discuss in the UN General Assembly?” Paulng, 15 Aug. 2019, www.paulng.me/nlp-un-general-assembly/. 

Philipp Broniecki and Anna Hanchar and Slava J. Mikhaylov, “Data Innovation for International Development: An overview of natural language processing for qualitative data analysis.” 16 Sept. 2017

Stevens, Philip. “Diseases of poverty and the 10/90 Gap.” November 2004, https://www.who.int/intellectualproperty/submissions/InternationalPolicyNetwork.pdf

“Transforming our World: The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development” United Nations, 2015, https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/post2015/transformingourworld/publication


